# Buddy Budgeter
Whether it’s a simple night out with friends or a month-long vacation, figuring out who will pay for what, how it will be split up, and when people will pay it back can be stressful, complicated, and problematic. Money sending apps like Venmo and Zelle offer partial solutions, but oftentimes money is repeatedly sent back and forth between the same people, incorrect amounts are sent, or people simply “forget” to ever pay you back. This retroactive budgeting app will allow people to track purchases throughout a period of time, then automatically calculate who owes what to whom, send out requests, and manage when everyone has paid to ensure everyone’s funds are accounted for and take stress out of fun memories.
## Who is it for?
This software is beneficial for anyone: friends on a night out, clubs hosting an event, extended families taking vacations, or any other group that plans on spending money together. Money is extremely important to us all, but it shouldn't detract from having fun and spending time with one another.
## What will it do?
The app will track all purchases made over a period of time by any members of the group, which can then be marked as individual purchases, group purchases, or custom split amounts. At the end of the trip, owed amounts for each member will be calculated so that they can easily pay back the person who made the payments. Money can either be deposited before the trip and then any excess is refunded, or sent after final calculations are made to pay the exact amount.
## Scope
While calculator apps are relatively simple in JavaScript, there are many helpful features that could be added to this app that I believe make it an appropriate project for the semester. Management of funds in the middle period between initial setup and final payments is crucial to get right. Another important element that would prove challenging is figuring out how to optimize tracking payments. While it’s easy for users to have to manually input everything, optimizing this for easier user experience is key for the app’s success as an alternative to pen and paper financing.
